Incorporate Chris's proposed change to section 7 and make it focus on Definition of function components of NDT (#28)
cheneyzhoucheng/network-digital-twin: draft-irtf-nmrg-network-digital-twin-arch.md

~~~~
{: #arc title="Reference Architecture of Network Digital Twin" artwork-align="center"}

Section 4 describes functional characteristics or elements of NDT in four principal classes:
data, models, interfaces, and mappings.

This section describes the important functional components of NDTs - reflecting
these functional elements - in greater detail. It also describes how an NDT consisting of these

> components may be used in operations systems to deliver the various functional use cases of NDTs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
components may be used in operations systems to deliver the various functional NDT use cases.
```

Section 4 described functional characteristics or elements of NDTs in four principal classes:
data, models, interfaces, and mappings (it also referred to logic associated with the operation
and use of NDTs).

This Section describes the important functional components of NDTs - reflecting
these functional elements - in greater detail. It also describes how an NDT consisting of these
components may be used in operations systems to deliver the various functional use cases of NDTs.

The core functional components of an NDT may be posited as follows:
a Data Repository component or subsystem, a Service Mapping Models subsystem, and an NDT Management
subsystem. These key subsystems can be placed in one single network administrative domain and provide
service to the operations applications (e.g. SDN controllers) within that domain or in other network
administrative domains, or they may be placed in each network administrative domain and coordinate
among each other to provide services to operations applications (in effect, one or multiple NDT
instances may be maintained and operated in service of a given real network).

> A Data Repository subsystem is responsible for collecting and storing network data. It collects and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Data Repository component is responsible for collecting and storing network data. It collects and
```

updates the real-time operational and instrumentation data of the various network elements through

> the appropriate real network-facing southbound interface, as well as from other operations system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the appropriate real network-facing interface, as well as from other operations system
```

components. It also provides data services (e.g., fast retrieval, concurrent conflict handling,

> batch service) through appropriate unified interfaces to a Service Mapping Models subsystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
batch service) through appropriate interfaces to a Service Mapping Models component.
```

Service Mapping Models complete data modeling, and provide data or other functional model instances
supporting various network applications. Models include two major types, basic and functional models:

> o  Basic models refer to network element model(s) and network topology model(s) used to reflect the

Reviewer: ```suggestion

o  Basic models refer to network element models and network topology models used to reflect the
```

>    basic configuration, environment information, operational state, link topology etc. of the network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   basic configuration, environment information, operational state, link topology, etc. of the network
```

   and its elements.
o  Functional models refer to various data or other models used to generate information supporting
   network analysis, emulation, diagnosis, prediction, assurance, etc. The functional models can be
   constructed and expanded in various ways: by network type; there can be models serving single or
   multiple network domains; by function type. Functional models and the information they generate
   can relate to state monitoring, traffic analysis, security exercise, fault diagnosis, quality
   assurance and various network lifecycle management goal - such as planning, construction, maintenance,
   optimization and operation. Functional models can also be divided into general models and
   special-purpose models. Multiple models can be combined to create a model for more specific application
   scenarios. New applications might need new functional models that do not yet exist. If a new model is
   needed, the Service Mapping Models subsystem may help to create new models based on data retrieved from
   the Data Repository.

> A Network Digital Twin Management subsystem manages the operation of the NDT and its components to useful

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Network Digital Twin Management component manages the NDT operation and its subcomponents to useful
```

effect, serving applications that require and make use of the information generated by the NDT. It manages
the session-based operation of the NDT, managing the life-cycle of these operations under the direction of

> associated applications; it monitors the performance and resource consumption of the NDT or even of individual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
associated applications; it monitors the performance and resource consumption of the NDT (including individual
```

> models; and controls various operational elements and aspects of the NDT, including topology management, model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
models); and controls various operational aspects of the NDT, including topology management, model
```

management and security management.

> The “real network” – the physical counter-part of the NDT - can be a mobile access network, a transport network,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "real network" – the physical counter-part of an NDT - can be a mobile access network, a transport network,
```

a mobile core, a backbone, etc. The real network can also be a data center network, a campus enterprise network,
an industrial Internet of Things, etc.
The real network can span across a single network administrative domain or multiple network administrative domains.

> It can include both physical entities and some virtual entities (e.g. vSwitches, NFVs, etc.), which together carry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can include both physical entities and some virtual entities (e.g., vSwitches), which together carry
```

traffic and provide actual network services.
All or subset of network elements in the real network deliver network data, directly or through other systems, to

> the NDT, through appropriate interfaces. Network elements may receive control inputs, through appropriate interfaces,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the NDT, through appropriate interfaces. Network elements may receive control inputs, through specific interfaces,
```
